In this video, we're
going to look at
how we can add further
visual interest
using some of the
graphical tools like
sparklines, pictures, and shapes.
Roan would like to
illustrate the trends in
coal waste production and
recovery rates for each state,
but he doesn't want to
have to create 16 charts.
One alternative is
to use sparkline.
A sparkline is really
a miniature chart that
sits inside one cell.
To create a sparkline,
you can either select the data or
the cell where you want
the sparkline to go.
We're going to start
by clicking in K5,
and then we're going to
come to our Insert ribbon
and in the Sparklines group,
you'll see there are
three to choose from.
We're going to choose
a Column sparkline.
It's identified our
location range,
but we now need to
give it a data range,
so we're going to select from C5
across to H5 and then
just press "Okay."
There's our sparkline.
The great thing about
sparklines is you can use the
Fill handle to copy them.
If I come to my Fill handle,
that bottom right-hand corner,
and drag down, I
can now see the trends
for each of my states.
When you copy a
sparkline that way,
they are automatically
linked or grouped.
You can ungroup all of them
or an individual one by
coming up to the Sparkline ribbon
and clicking on "Group."
But we're going to leave them
grouped because if you do that,
changing one will
change all of them.
So I'm just going to
select a single sparkline
and we'll look at some
of the mods we can make.
First of all, there's
some style options,
so I could go for a
different shade of blue.
You could come to Sparkline Color
and be a bit more
specific as well.
You can change the marker color.
These are particular points
within the sparkline.
For example, the high point,
I'm going to make
that a dark red.
You can also
copy-paste sparklines,
so I'm going to select
the whole group,
Control C to copy,
click next to my
resource recovery rates,
and Control V to paste.
These ones, however, while
linked to each other,
are not linked to the first set.
Clicking into my second group,
I'm going to make
some changes as well.
I'm going to come to Sparkline,
and I'd like these
to be line graphs
rather than column charts.
On the left-hand side,
you can change your sparkline
type and of course,
you can change the
color here as well.
I'm going to come to my Styles,
go for a green one this time,
and change my high point to
be a nice bright yellow.
So very easy to
create and to modify.
If you needed to update
the data that the
sparkline was looking at,
you could come to Edit Data.
If you need to remove sparklines,
just select the ones
you want to remove
and click the Clear button
on your Sparkline ribbon.
That was the first thing
we wanted to look at.
Now, the other thing Roan
would like to do is when he
changes territory or
state in the map,
he would like to get a
summary of the recovery,
recycling, and
landfill percentages.
Now, we could obviously just
put a little formula under here.
The only difficulty with that
is it's going to be very hard
to position the data
nicely because we have to now
start widening our columns.
What Roan would like to do is
actually have those
values sitting
in a graphical way
that he can just
drag and drop them and make
them any size he likes.
You can achieve this by
linking a value to a shape.
The first thing we, of
course, are going to
have to do is have
a calculation to return
the correct values for
the selected state.
So a little bit of
revision on our VLOOKUP.
We're going to
click into N1 first
and we're going to type
equals VL for VLOOKUP.
The value we're looking
up as our selected state,
so I'm going to click
on K1 and comma.
Now I'm going to select
all my data in the
bottom section,
so from B29 E36.
Then another comma.
My recovery data,
which is the first thing I want,
is in column 2, so that's
a two and a comma.
Finally, this is
definitely an exact match,
so I either need to
type false or zero.
I'm going to close my
bracket and I'm actually
going to copy that whole thing.
I'm going to copy everything
after the equals Control C,
just to save me some time,
and now I'm going to tap.
Now, the second thing I want
to do is get my recycling,
so I'm going to type
equals and paste.
Then I just need to
edit the column to be
column 3 and tap.
Then the same thing,
equals, Control V,
and let's change that to
column 4, and "Enter."
There are my three rates
for Northern territories.
They look better as percentages.
I'm going to highlight that
and make it a percentage.
If I come and change this to ACT,
they're my percentages for ACT.
That's all working really nicely,
but I actually want
to see those values
appearing in more graphical
way underneath my map.
What we're going to
do is use a shape.
Shapes are extremely useful,
we can use them as buttons,
we've seen that with our macros,
and we can use them to
display values in dashboards,
or we can use them to display
values in our workbook.
We're going to come to
our Insert ribbon again,
and in the Illustrations group,
we're going to look for Shapes.
There are a lot to choose from.
The one I'm going to use
is in the flowchart group,
it's called the Terminator.
You can use any one
you like, though.
I'm going to click
once and release,
and then I'm going to move my
cross head, that little cross,
to the position where
I want my shape to go,
and I'm going to click, hold,
and drag to draw the shape.
Once you've drawn the shape,
you can make some changes to it.
You'll see a shape format
ribbon has appeared,
and on the right-hand side,
you can change the size.
I would like mine
to be exactly one,
and then I'm just
going to press tab
and three centimeters.
You can also, of course,
change your colors.
You've got a gallery of shapes,
styles you can choose from,
or you can be more specific.
I'm going to come to my shape
fill and I'm going
to make it black.
I'm going to change my outline
to white, it's a bit simple.
Then one last thing
with the Shape,
we're going to come
to Home and I'm going
to center align the text.
Now, I'm not going to type
anything in there yet.
I actually need three shapes,
and rather than going
through all of that again,
I'm going to
duplicate this shape.
You could copy paste,
but the duplicate is a really
quick way of doing that.
I'm going to hold control
down and press D twice,
and that's your keyboard
shortcut to duplicate.
Then I'm going to
grab my third shape
and move it roughly into
the position where I want it to
be. So we put it up there.
We don't want to spend a lot of
time lining our shapes up,
but it is important
that they properly
aligned for that good finish.
Here's some great tools
to speed the process up.
We're going to use
our shift key to
select all three shapes.
I'm going to come up to
my shape format ribbon,
and I'm going to find the
align tool on the right,
and I'm going to start by
aligning them all to the bottom.
That means they're all aligned
to the shape that's
at the lowest point.
Then I'm going to
come back to align,
and I'm going to distribute
horizontally really quick.
Now, that's done, let's
go and link shapes to
the percentages in our top row.
I'm going to click
on the first shape,
and I'm going to click
into my formula bar,
and this is a really neat trick.
I'm going to type
equals and click
on the cell that has the
value I want to link to.
You can't put a whole formula
in here but obviously,
you can put a complex
formula in the cell you're
linking to, and then
just press enter.
Then let's repeat that process
for the other two shapes.
Now, I don't need to see
these values anymore,
I don't need to see any of these,
so I'm going to select that row
and change my text to black.
You don't have to hide the row,
you just want it to
visually disappear,
you can just make the text
same color as the background.
Most thing I need to
do now is actually
label these shapes
because otherwise,
I don't know what these
values are telling me,
and you could use a text label,
you could use another shape.
But another option
is to use a picture.
The saying is a picture
says a thousand words.
Let's go back to our Insert tab,
come to Pictures, and
we're going to get
them from this device.
When you downloaded
the workbooks,
it should also have
downloaded three images.
Please navigate to the folder
where your workbooks are,
and we're going to select all
three using our shift key,
and then I'm going
to click "Insert".
Now, they are a little
bit large so I'm
just going to move them
so they're slightly
more on to the screen,
and then I'm going to come
up to picture format,
and I'm going to come into
height and just type 1.2,
and press "Enter" to
resize them all at once.
Then I'm just going
to move them down.
Now, click away for a
moment to unselect them,
and we can just go and put
each one next to its
relevant figures.
The Recovery is the first
one, then Recycling,
and then Landfill, then
maybe we'll just select all
three and again align them.
I'm going to say
Align Top this time.
What we've done here is we've
used sparklines, shapes,
and images to add that bit of
graphical interests
to our worksheets.
We look forward to
hearing your ideas on how
we can add visual interest
to our worksheets.
Don't forget to go and add
your ideas to this
week's Creative Corner.